MIGRATION.md, before:


# Migration

## Migrating from v3 to v4

### Mixins

- The `oTooltips` mixin now includes all styles required for tooltips. See the [Sass documentation](README.md#sass) for information on the new parameters
- The following mixins have been removed:
  - `oTooltipContent`
  - `oTooltipUpArrow`
  - `oTooltipDownArrow`
  - `oTooltipLeftArrow`
  - `oTooltipRightArrow`
  - `oTooltipClose`
- The following global variables have been removed:
  - `$o-tooltip-animation-distance`
  - `$o-tooltip-animation-duration`

### ES Modules

v5 uses [ES Modules over CommonJS](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2018/03/es-modules-a-cartoon-deep-dive/) syntax. We recommend to include `o-tooltip` using the es modules syntax.

```diff
-const Tooltip = require('o-tooltip');
+import Tooltip from 'o-tooltip';
```

However to use the CommonJS syntax, without a plugin like [babel-plugin-transform-es2015-modules-commonjs](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-es2015-modules-commonjs), add `.default` to access `o-tooltip` methods.

```diff
-const Tooltip = require('o-tooltip');
+const Tooltip = require('o-tooltip').default;
```

## Migrating from v2 to v3

- V3 introduces a new dependency on `o-grid`. `o-grid` enables us to position `o-tooltip` dependent on the current breakpoint. To upgrade your project confirm your version of `o-grid`, if your project has one, is compatible. You may do this by installing V3 of `o-tooltip` and confirming there are no build failures. If your project is not compatible update the version of `o-grid` used in your project. Your current use of `o-grid` may be a direct dependency on the `o-grid` component or a sub-dependency of a different component.
- The deprecated events `o.tooltipShown` and `o.tooltipClosed` are no longer fired. Use `oTooltip.show` and `oTooltip.close` instead.
- The deprecated `rectObject` property and `getEdge` method of the `Target` object no longer exist.

## Migrating from v1 to v2

V1 -> V2 introduces the new majors of `o-overlay` and `o-visual-effects`. Updating to this new version will mean updating any other components that you have which are using `o-overlay` or `o-visual-effects`. There are no other breaking changes in this release.

Commit message:

Include o-typography and upgrade other dependencies. (#88)
* Include o-typography and upgrade other dependencies.

MIGRATION.md, after:


# Migration

## Migrating from v3 to v4

Tooltip typography is now included by default, and no longer inherits typography from its container. Confirm tooltip typography is correct for your project. If possible remove custom CSS which sets tooltip typography.

### Mixins

- The `oTooltips` mixin now includes all styles required for tooltips. See the [Sass documentation](README.md#sass) for information on the new parameters
- The following mixins have been removed:
  - `oTooltipContent`
  - `oTooltipUpArrow`
  - `oTooltipDownArrow`
  - `oTooltipLeftArrow`
  - `oTooltipRightArrow`
  - `oTooltipClose`
- The following global variables have been removed:
  - `$o-tooltip-animation-distance`
  - `$o-tooltip-animation-duration`

### ES Modules

v5 uses [ES Modules over CommonJS](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2018/03/es-modules-a-cartoon-deep-dive/) syntax. We recommend to include `o-tooltip` using the es modules syntax.

```diff
-const Tooltip = require('o-tooltip');
+import Tooltip from 'o-tooltip';
```

However to use the CommonJS syntax, without a plugin like [babel-plugin-transform-es2015-modules-commonjs](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-es2015-modules-commonjs), add `.default` to access `o-tooltip` methods.

```diff
-const Tooltip = require('o-tooltip');
+const Tooltip = require('o-tooltip').default;
```

## Migrating from v2 to v3

- V3 introduces a new dependency on `o-grid`. `o-grid` enables us to position `o-tooltip` dependent on the current breakpoint. To upgrade your project confirm your version of `o-grid`, if your project has one, is compatible. You may do this by installing V3 of `o-tooltip` and confirming there are no build failures. If your project is not compatible update the version of `o-grid` used in your project. Your current use of `o-grid` may be a direct dependency on the `o-grid` component or a sub-dependency of a different component.
- The deprecated events `o.tooltipShown` and `o.tooltipClosed` are no longer fired. Use `oTooltip.show` and `oTooltip.close` instead.
- The deprecated `rectObject` property and `getEdge` method of the `Target` object no longer exist.

## Migrating from v1 to v2

V1 -> V2 introduces the new majors of `o-overlay` and `o-visual-effects`. Updating to this new version will mean updating any other components that you have which are using `o-overlay` or `o-visual-effects`. There are no other breaking changes in this release.
